README.md, before:

---
editor_options: 
  markdown: 
    wrap: 72
---

# The NAVIGATE inequality dataset at the income decile level for use in IAMs

### Authors: Johannes Emmerling, Shouro Dasgupta, Simon Feindt, Daniele Malerba, Carolina Grottera

Within NAVIGATE, a standardized input data template has been defined and
data has been collected using household surveys from a number of
developed and OECE countries. Available countries (for the latest year,
between 2008 and 2017, available), include India, Brazil, France, South
Africa, United States of America, China, Mexico, as well as 26 EU member
states based on a common survey.

The data is all structured around income deciles. Units of observations
for the deciles are households. The OECD modified equivalence scale has
been applied to compute household income per person. (1 plus 0.5 per
adult (older than 14 years) and 0.3 per child (14 or less years)).

Available variables (all for deciles D1 to D10):

-   Income share

-   Expenditure share

-   Expenditure share

    -   Energy for Transportation

    -   Energy for Housing

    -   Food

-   Education of the household head

-   Average savings rate

-   Household size

-   Income by type (labour, capital, transfers, other)

-   Wealth share (where available)

The energy expenditure shares for housing and transportation are key
variables for IAMs, and here the expenditure shares across countries,
which show a strong regressive pattern for residential energy
consumption while for transportation it appears in most countries to be
progressive.

Contact: johannes.emmerling\@eiee.org

Commit message:

Add EU countries, update ReadMe

README.md, after:

# An inequality dataset at the income decile level for use in IAMs

### Authors: Johannes Emmerling, Shouro Dasgupta, Simon Feindt, Daniele Malerba

Within the NAVIGATE and PRISMA projects, a standardized input data template has been defined and
data has been collected using household surveys from a number of
developed and OECE countries. Available countries (for the latest year,
between 2008 and 2017, available), include India, Brazil, France, South
Africa, United States of America, China, Mexico, as well as 26 EU member
states based on a common survey.

The data is all structured around income deciles. Units of observations
for the deciles are households. The OECD modified equivalence scale has
been applied to compute household income per person. (1 plus 0.5 per
adult (older than 14 years) and 0.3 per child (14 or less years)).

Available variables (all for deciles D1 to D10):

-   Income share

-   Expenditure share

-   Expenditure share

    -   Energy for Transportation

    -   Energy for Housing

    -   Food

-   Education of the household head

-   Average savings rate

-   Household size

-   Income by type (labour, capital, transfers, other)

-   Wealth share (where available)

The energy expenditure shares for housing and transportation are key
variables for IAMs, and here the expenditure shares across countries,
which show a strong regressive pattern for residential energy
consumption while for transportation it appears in most countries to be
progressive.

Within PRISMA, the dataset has been expanded by including more countries, the urban/rural divide, and gender differentiation where available.

Contact: johannes.emmerling\@cmcc.it
